# Kickstarting with Excel

## Overview of Project
This project utilizes data gathered from various kickstarter campaigns. Specifically, the dataset contains characteristics such as the year each kickstarter began, what the money was meant to fund, and funding goals and whether they were met. Various aspects of Microsoft Excel were then used to home in on specific pieces of the overall dataset and then make conclusions on how different characteristics influence chances of success. Through these conclusions, advise can be given to people hoping to start their own kickstarter campaigns in order optimize their chances of success.

### Purpose
The overall purpose of this project is to draw conclusions from the dataset using Excel to analyze what factors into a successful kickstarter. We can then proceed to provide our insights to those who want to start their own kickstarters, thus hopefully giving them guidance on the direction to take. 

## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date

The month in which the kickstarter begins can have a profound effect on its chances of success. Theater is the by far the most common subcategory present in this dataset. By specifically analyzing the success rates by month of theater kickstarters, we can determine that ones that began in the months of May, June, and July saw the highest success rates. Those that began in the months of December through March saw the lowest rates of success. Note that kickstarters that begin in colder months seem to have harder times than those that begin in warmer months. This could be due to people having generally happier dispositions when the weather is nice and are therefore more willing to part with their money for causes they appreciate. The low success rates in December and January may also be partially due to holidays like Christmas and Hanakkuh draining personal funds due to gift buying and travel expenses, thus giving people fewer funds to donate. The data for the following graph was imported into a pivot table by simply using Microsoft Excel's Insert Pivot Table option and filtering by Parent Category and Year (the type of kickstarter and the year it began). 

https://imgur.com/vxoETvd 

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals

The monetary goal a kickstarter sets to be deemed successful also has a great impact on whether it is likely to succeed. Based on the data, there are three discernible trends in success rate based on continuously increasing goals. Kickstarters with goals below $1,000 through goals of 
$34,999 see a continuous decrease in success rates. These rates peak at 71.1% for kickstarters with goals below $1,000 and are the lowest at 39% for kickstarters with goals between $30,000 and $34,999. Secondly, there is a slight increase in success from goals of $35,000 to $44,999. However, it is very slight (from 39% to 49%), and it then met with a final trend of significant decrease in success rate from goals of $45,000 onwards. Overall, I believe it is safe to assume that there is general trend of decreasing success rates as the goal amount increases. This makes logical sense, as having to raise over $45,000 is much more difficult than raising under $1,000. This data was broken into ranges using COUNTIFS. For example, the range of $30,000 to $34,999 was isolated through the following: =COUNTIFS(Kickstarter!$D:$D,">=30000",Kickstarter!$D:$D,"<=34999",Kickstarter!$F:$F,"successful"). 

https://imgur.com/k8YREZZ 

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered

Although Microsoft Excel is generally intuitive in my opinion, I did catch myself having to be careful when implementing COUNTIFS. Specifically, my first time writing the code I used < and >, instead of <= and >=. This would greatly affect the results and conclusions drawn, as many of the data points include goals that are right on the edge of each range (e.g., a goal of exactly $35,000). I thankfully did not run into any challenges when setting up a pivot table to analyze outcomes based on launch dates. However, a possible challenge one could face is not knowing how to group the data so that it is by month instead of by year. 

## Results

Based on Theater Outcomes based on Launch Date, you can conclude that kickstarters are generally more successful during hotter months (May through August) and less successful during colder months (December through March). Furthermore, cancellation rates seem even throughout the year, suggesting that the month in which a kickstarter begins does not significantly influence its chances of being prematurely canceled. Moving onwards, Outcomes based on Goals suggests that a good rule to follow is that as the kickstarter goal increases, the chance of the kickstarter succeeding decreases. Additionally, cancellation rates have a slight upward trend as the goal increases. It can be concluded that higher goals make the kickstarter succeeding more difficult, and to a lesser degree make chances of cancellation higher. 

It should be noted that there are some limitations to this dataset. For example, while there are short blurbs given for each entry, there is still very little substantive information given on who exactly is starting each kickstarter. A kickstarter's success rates is affected by the skills, knowledge, and assets brought to the table by the individual starting it. This is unfortunately not covered by the dataset, so the entire picture is not given. Also, while it may be tempting to assume that certain subcategories with low success rates are simply unpopular, it would be inaccurate to say this is always the case. Things like the socioeconomic status and technological literacy (kickstarters are ran primarily online) of each subcategory's fanbase should also be taken into account when thinking about why certain subcategories tend to fail more often. The dataset does not cover this, however, and once again cannot be expected to give a complete picture. Further studies would have to be ran to gather more relevant data if more accurate conclusions are to be made. That is not to say that the dataset is not quite useful, as it can be used draw even more comparisons. For example, one could look at how the length of a kickstart (launch to deadline) affects success rates. You might expect longer lengths to improve success rates, as it gives more time to raise money, but it could also be a hinderance if donations fizzle out after the first few months. A comparison of subcategories based on average donation per donor could also prove interesting. 